Now for the hips here let's use a different shape.
Let's select that.
Let's come over here and under our custom object.
Let's choose the box right there now because it has three dimensions it's a solid figure.
Here we can choose wireframe and clean that up.
Now let's come over here and choose our custom shape transform.
And that was root I believe.
Let's scroll down here it is root underscore SEO and that spins that around.
Now it's a little too small I think it needs to be wider and it's not quite in the right place.
So how do we fix that.
Well what we can do is actually go back to that original shape go into edit mode and scale and move
it.
So let's go back to object mode over here.
Let's then open up our control objects and I'll unharmed the collection and then I'll also on hide the
box here.
So here it is.
So keep an eye on the control object as we change the box here.
I'll tab into edit mode and let's do is let's scale out in the X S and X you can see it moving there.
The control object and then let's also raise it up you can see it moving up in there as well.
So maybe about like this.
That's looking pretty good.
I think that'll work.
There may be a little bit farther down.
Let's try this yeah.
I think I like that.
So now that we've got that let's tab back into object mode.
We can hide this away again and then this now is our new control object for the hips.
Let's go back to post mode.
There we go.
And let's now choose this bone here and let's hide this away pose change bone layer layer two and then
it goes.
All right.
That's good.
So if we grab this object and hit the G key you can see we can move everything around and we go OK how
about the arms.
Let's take a look at this.
Let's choose this arm here.
Go grab our Custom Object circle.
And there it is there let's choose our bone which is going to be up arm.
Else so here it is up arm control object Elle.
OK.
And we've got that.
But it's turned the wrong way.
So what do we do with this.
Well just like changing the role of any other bone we can select it go into edit mode at the end key
and click and drag on the roll here and let's just turn it 90 degrees like this let's try that and then
go back to pose mode.
And there it is.
Yeah that's not bad.
Let's let's go with that.
Let's shrink it down a bit.
Something like this.
I'll just type in.
Uh point seven.
Let's go with that.
There we go.
And then let's select this.
Move it to our layer two.
And there we go.
So now if we take this we can move that around.
I'll hit R and like this.
There we go.
OK.
That works.
Let's try this one now let's create a circle control object will call this lower arm low arm underscore
SEO dot l.
This too can be turned a bit Let's select that bone go into edit mode and let's roll this about like
this I'm just gonna turn it about forty five degrees let's try this back pose mode.
Not too bad I think I want to turn it a little bit more let's try like this maybe sixty five let's try
that pose mode.
Here we go.
Select it let's shrink it down a bit maybe let's uh we can maybe go point six on that as well and let's
work on the hand.
Now take this one custom object circle custom shape transform is gonna be the hand hand underscore SEO
dot L and we go and this needs to be turned a bit as well.
Let's turn it like this pose.
Yeah that's pretty good.
Let's select this let's increase the size of this maybe we'll call this one point five yeah that'll
work.
And then let's go ahead and hide this bone and this bone or move them over to that other layer.
All right here we go.
Now if we take this and turn it you can see they all come along.
We can take this one and bend it like this.
All right I'll select everything.
Press alt are an all g to get us back to our original positions.
And this one here I feel like it's maybe a little bit too big I'll take that down to point five.
There we go.
OK now let's work on the fingers.
Let's select this bone here let's give it a sphere.
This time we've used a circle and the box.
Let's use a sphere.
Now let's choose that finger one control object.
El let's do that and let's shrink it down maybe two point two.
Let's try that let's do it again sphere finger to control object El point two.
Yeah that works pretty well.
This one sphere finger 3 CEO El let's take it down to point two as well and then let's select all of
these and move them over to the other layer and we go okay these let's once again use a sphere and this
is gonna be the thumb one isn't it thumb one control object.
There we go point two
sphere.
This will be thumb to
here point to and this one we want to sphere and this will be thumb 3 on the left side.
There we go.
In point two now we take all of these moving to the other layer.
All right we're getting there so you can begin to see what we're doing here.
We're cleaning all this up.
So as we animate the control objects we'll be present and visible but not so much in the way we'll be
able to see more of our character than the rig.
All right let's work on this side now doing the same thing.
We're going to choose a circle.
We're going to choose the up arm on the right.
Right here up arms SEO are and we're going to take this guy and we're gonna turn it 90 degrees over
in the role field like this something like that.
Let's go back to pose mode.
There we go that looks pretty good.
And let's shrink this down like about like this will type in point seven.
Let's do that.
All right.
Now let's work on the upper excuse me the lower arm.
We'll make that a circle again lower arm control object on the right.
We'll select that and let's go into edit mode and let's roll this around like this.
Is that enough.
Let's try that.
Oh no.
That's not even close.
Let's roll that this way.
Like that let's try that maybe negative sixty five back to pose mode.
Yeah.
That's a little better.
What we have over here point five OK.
Let's type in point five here here's the hand let's choose the circle again we'll need the hand control
object and control on the right we will turn this quite a bit edit mode let's turn it this way like
that
back to pose mode what did I put it over here.
This hand is one point five.
So let's do the same thing let's try that.
Okay.
Now select all of these and take them over to that other layer right here pose change bone layers we
go all right.
So I'm going to leave this hand to you.
I'm going to go ahead and work on this before the next video and in the next video will come down here
and work on creating the custom objects for the feet the toes in the knees.
So that's coming up.